Plasmid extraction
==================

*23rd May 2015, 10.00 pm*

The 3 ml cultures inoculated with colonies picked up from agar plates had grown
up sufficiently to form a dense opaque solution. The main task today was to
extract plasmid DNA from these cells and verify if they have been successfully
transformed with the supplied plasmid DNA or not.

So,

[O] Extraction of Plasmid DNA from 3 ml cell cultures

[O] Double restriction digestion of Plasmid DNA.

[X] Verification of extracted plasmid DNA by gel electrophoresis of digested volume.

Of these, as shown, only the first two tasks could be performed today.

Since culture volume was pretty small (3 ml), plasmid DNA was extracted by the
mini preparation of alkaline lysis method. The detailed steps along with role
of reagents and correct technique is recorded in the lab notebook, but however,
a couple of important points are worth mentioning here.

The alkaline lysis method is essentially based on the use of three solutions
called solution I, solution II, and solution III. These solutions respectively
are used for cell suspension in an isotonic solution (with components to
preserve nucleic acids), membrane dissolution and protein denaturation, and
neutralization of mixture respectively. The DNA is then removed from the other
components by simple centrifugation and precipitated by addition of suitable
organic solvent. The DNA is then further purified by additional rounds of
iso-propanol and ethanol washes.

Once pure plasmid DNA is obtained, we need to verify the presence of correct
length protein sequence within the plasmid or ensure that the vectors aren't
empty (as in, during the initial preparation of plasmid, it is possible that
ends might have been ligated without the inclusion of gene of interest) by doing
a double restriction digestion.

We find two restriction sites around the GOI (using ApE), digest the plasmid
DNA and run a gel electrophoresis buffer to verify. Once verified, that plasmid
DNA can then be used to transform the protein expression strains.

Lab
---

Plasmid DNA extraction, Restriction digestion

Theory
------

DH10b cell strain, Alkaline Lysis Method, Restriction digestion and methylation
in bacteria
