Graph and Talk
==============

As usual, the day started with a scheduled talk on Biomechanics by Prof.
Namrata Gundiah. Today, she shifted her focus from yesterday and talked about
the mechanical response and behavior from the point of view of a single cell.
The talk titled 'Cell adhesion and migration' took us through a rapid journey
of important cytoskeletal proteins that play important role in shaping up the
cells and how they could possibly respond to different hardness of the
*stratum* on which a cell is cultured.

In one of the studies, they investigated the behavior of cell size regulation
on a tissue level by preparing different shapes of moulds and culturing normal
MDCK cell line and MCF-7 breast cancer cell lines. Once the confining boundary
was removed, the cells in both lines appeared to reorganize in a different way.
The normal cells showed a pattern in the movement (by tracking the
tracker molecules inside the cells) with the appearance of local vortex like
movement and stress relaxation at highly cornered places of tissue structure
and regular localization of actin molecules on the boundary and the cell
surface. Breast cancer cells, on the other hand, had no regular pattern of
movement along with impaired and irregular deposition of actin along the
boundaries. This behavior of cancer cells kind of supports their tricky
and unpredictable behavior.

Another interesting aspect to observe in this case was the appearance of leader
cells. These cells are those which come forward along a front and induce other
cells to follow the pack. The appearance of such leader cells across the
surface of the cell seems to impart the final specific shape of the shall.
These features, however, seem to be absent in the BCC. Namrata and her students
were then interested in studying whether it is possible to predict these leader
cells *a priori*. They found out that the appearance of leader cells, though
appears locally random, is well managed through the surface of the cell and all
of them are separated by a minimum distance (signifying a kind of area of
control/effect).

Finally, giving an example of their study related to cell membrane, she cited
their study where they prepared a surface containing micro-pillars (through an
elaborate difficult process) which could sense the stress based on the bending
in a striped linear fashion. Human fibroblast cells were incubated on these
plates and they were observed to move along the direction of lines that were
imprinted on the surface, suggesting that these cells are sensing the pattern
around them and accordingly directing their movement. A stress hotspot was also
created showing regions of cells under stress as it moves.

Apart from the talk, I had to finish my lab notebook by plotting and pasting
all the calcein release data and accordingly provide explanation for all my
observations and associated discussion.

The protein labeling was done today with the Cy3 dye and Pradeep went to
prepare the lipid bilayer system.
