Calcein Release Assay - DPPC:Cholesterol - III
==============================================

Today, I carried out a couple of tasks in parallel to ensure that tasks are
finished on time. Soon as I arrive within the lab, I prepared media to
autoclave, filtered PBS to equilibrate the column for vesicle separation,
removed the from the glass vial and put it for sonication.

By two hours, my autoclave and vesicle preparation was done and all I had to do
now is to run the kinetic cycle and observe the activity. I also obtained a
50ul aliquot of LLO protein (1.5mg/ml) so as to test and confirm the nature of
my lipid vesicles.

The usual Tuesday lab meeting was scheduled at 2.00 pm with a work presentation
by Vaishnavi and paper presentation about Pradeep. Vaishnavi talked about her
efforts to study the Mcp5 protein and how does it helps in the formation of
PIP2, a crucial element for anchoring of dynein to cell membrane. Pradeep on
the other end, discussed a paper where the researchers had examined the effects
of curvature on the membrane protein function. They had created a model to
deduce the effective pore size of a protein (altered due to curvature stresses)
and then worked back to a give a mechanism where by putting a protein on the
membrane and measuring the function of protein, one can asses the properties of
membrane. A protein-sensor like a device. A cool paper.

Finally, after the lab meeting, I ran the kinetic cycle with ClyAWT and
ClyA56C-Cy3 with DPPC:Cholesterol vesicles. I could observe a fast kinetics
behavior of quick rise in lysis by ClyAWT, similar to its behavior with
DOPC:Cholesterol vesicles. ClyA56C on the other hand, was neither as active or
with similar kinetics nor completely inactive as we had observed in the case of
DOPC:Cholesterol. Something curious is going on, but I need to normalize the
maximum lysis values across the experiments to be able to compare directly and
report any observations.
