Curious Case of RBC Lysis
=========================

Today I wanted to redo the RBC Lysis experiment to obtain the proper data which
can be used in my report and lab notebook as well. Since, Pradeep wasn't
available due to work in Chemical Engineering department, I had to do it alone
which added more to the excitement factor.

I proceeded with the usual protocol for the experiment - taking a packed volume
of RBC cells, creating a stock solution, lysing with different concentrations
of protein and measuring the absorbance of the supernatant.

However, curiously, I didn't get the pattern of lysis I got on Saturday. Instead, there
was a significant mass of unlysed cells present even in the presence of a very
high concentration of protein (2 ug/ml). Despite repeating the experiment twice
I got the same result and couldn't understand why this is happening.

Pradeep joined in the evening and told me that he had similar experience
before, and he guessed that it might have been because of lesser volume of
packed RBCs taken. This time, he redid the experiment by preparing a stock
solution of RBCs from 100 ul of packed RBC cells. We added toxin and incubated
for sufficient time. Shockingly, we observed the pattern we saw yesterday with
the observation that almost all the cells have been lysed in the highest
concentration (2 ug/ml).

A curious result to end the day with.

*Is the activity of toxin dependent on some critical number of RBCs? Is there
anything with the more number of RBCs that is enhancing the activity of toxin?*

Only further experiments could test any hypotheses that we might have.
