Curious Case of RBC Lysis - 2
=============================

Following from the curious results of previous day, we set to perform a few
experiments to investigate the role of RBCs for the activity of protein.

The first hypothesis we considered was that there is some X molecular or factor
that is enhancing the toxicity of the protein. This could either be in the
membrane of the RBC or the cytosol that comes out during lysis. To understand
this, we set up an experiment involving lysis of .5 % RBC volume and 1% RBC
volume with the same amount of toxin. As seen yesterday, there was considerable
lysis in the tube with more number of cells.

Now, we took another .5% of RBC cell volume, lysed them, and extracted the
ghost membrane and supernatant. The idea was to setup the previous experiment
once again but this time add the membrane pellet and cytosol to separate
reaction tube containing .5% RBC and see if there is any more lysis in their
presence. However, after incubation, we observed that the tubes with
supernatant and membrane both showed same amount of lysis but slightly
more than the control of .5%; though the overall results being inconclusive.

In the next set of experiments, we thought that let's assume for the time being
that it's something with the membrane and did a RBC lysis experiment with
different amounts of RBC ghost membrane. This would allow us to observe any
lysis effects due to more membrane in the solution. However, there was no
increasing pattern in lysis versus the increased concentration of membrane, and
neither was there was an inhibition in lysis of RBCs as is expected with the
very high membrane concentration (due to competitive inhibition).

This was indeed very curious.

Now, we were in a bit of doubt about our initial experiment which showed that
there is less lysis when number of RBCs is less and vice versa. Pradeep did a
control experiment (repeated essentially) to see if it is actually the case but
surprisingly we observed that both the tubes have similar fraction of unlysed
cell pellet remaining, suggesting that the actual phenomenon is much simpler than
what we are trying to hypothesize i.e., it's just that having more number of RBCs
results is more cells getting lysed and hence darker supernatant, but the fraction
of lysed and unlysed RBCs is same in both case.

We, however, need to verify this idea again by doing a RBCs quantity versus
toxin dose experiment to see if the pattern of lysis is same for different
amount of RBCs or something else is going on at lower concentration.

In the end, we prepared pre-inoculum for our ClyA wild type protein prep.
