D-Day
=====

As the final deadline was getting closer, so was the pressure on my nerves.
After staying back in campus last night, I had the opportunity to arrive to lab
early in the morning and address all the corrections that had been sent by
Pradeep. It was nearly 12.30 noon by the time I was done with most of them.
There were, however, two crucial graphs still to be generated. After a quick
discussion with Pradeep (for which I rode to Chemical Engineering department),
we arrived at ways to properly represent the remaining data.

In the next two hours, I had to redraw all calcein leakage plots and according
change discussions to account for the way I had plotted the graphs. I also took
out the dynamic light scattering and plotted it. However, by the time I'd
arrange all the discussions and graphs, It was already 3.55 pm, and hence
couldn't put the DLS data. I took a print out anyway and submitted it to the
Bio-Engineering office. After coming back, I put the DLS data and sent the copy
to Prof. Sandhya and Pradeep.

Suddenly, I realized that I'm 15 minutes late for a 4 pm talk scheduled on
Friday. I rushed to the talk on 'Ethical practices and patents in Science'
which went on till 5.30 pm.

After that, I had a short meeting with professor when she had some comments on
my report. She really liked my report but what surprised me more is that she
read my blog and specifically my post on intern-diary and list-of-books. It
feels great to see someone appreciate your honest efforts.

In the end, few of us BEST fellows spent some time around the campus, roaming
around the aerospace and CeNSE department halls, amidst heavy rain pouring down
the streets.

With this, came an official end to two months of excellent journey at Indian
Institute of Science. I spent a wonderful time here, meeting new people,
learning new contact and making new friends. Indeed, a memorable experience.
