Neural Engineering
==================

*15th May 2015, 11.00 pm*

Today began an exciting series of lecture module on Neural Engineering by
[Prof. Aditya Murthy](http://www.cns.iisc.ernet.in/aditya/), who is an
associate professor at Center for Neuroscience at Indian Institute of Science,
Bangalore.

He has great teaching skills, and I was really amazed and encouraged by the
brief history of neuroscience, and an amazing list of classical experiments
that he presented, outling the immense complexity of brain in a beautiful way.
We didn't realize how a lecture of one hour came to be extended by one more, so
engrossing was the talk. I'm really looking forward to more of him in the coming
set of remaining three lectures.

The other important thing that I did today was to prepare our lipid film for
the calcein leakage assay. For this, we needed to create a lipid film today which
we'll use tomorrow to create unilamellar vesicles tomorrow. The lipid film is
made up of a 1:1 ratio of DOPC and Cholesterol, in which the important role of
latter was understood by Pradeep through a series of experiments.

We also discussed the different ways in which we can obtain more information
from this experiment or perhaps enhance it for better quantification. The
things that we can measure are- the size of the vesicles, dye leakage,
bound/unbound protein, an idea of which size vesicles are getting lysed?

Finally, I took out the print out of all the images, enhanced them and prepared
my lab notebook. I'm expecting it to show to Prof. Sandhya by tomorrow and get
her updates.

Lab
---
Lipid film preparation, [Langmuir-Blodgett system
overview](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Langmuir%E2%80%93Blodgett_trough)

Theory
------
The cognitive control of emotions.
