Final day
=========

Today was the most crucial day of our internship as we had to do a public
presentation of our work in the MRDG seminar hall. It is even important than
the report (that's what I think) because report might be read only by a handful
of people, but this is what I am going to show to the world. This presentation
will actually sell me to an audience of scientists and researchers and help to
establish my work in the eyes of public. As clich√©d it might seem, it is
actually a challenging and important task. Being able to communicate with
people and be able to correctly and eloquently represent my ideas is what going
to fetch me support, grants, successful applications and what not.

Anyway, so a total of ten people were to present their work today. It started
from 10 am with 15 minutes of time scheduled for each presentation. There were
a lot of people for almost all departments and professors as well. After seven
people had presented their work, I was called out for mine. I had prepared a
nice transcript of things I would say and also took it to the kiosk, but
unfortunately, out of nervousness or fear, explained the slide totally based on
what came to my mind during the presentation. Even then, I somehow managed to
explain all the content I had put into the slides, mostly because I had done
all the work and knew everything almost by heart. It helped, I guess. Also, I
was really glad to see people from my lab who had come to see my presentation.
I didn't expect that they would be there because most of them have experiments
running and important work going on, but they managed to squeeze in some time
and despite the fact that we were delayed, no one left. One can imagine how
amazing it was to work with all of them.

Finally, we had the farewell where certificate were distributed, followed by a
lunch session. We had informal discussion, photo sessions with the faculty
(especially Prof. Rahul and Prof. Suresh) and our respective mentors. It was so
fun!

Finally, I spent the evening with remaining BEST fellows. Some of the people
left today itself while others have to leave by tomorrow. It was really a nice
time with all, and I'll miss everyone.

Oh and yes, I got feedback from Prof. Sandhya for my presentation. I was
thrilled to know that she found it excellent and was well appreciated by other
faculty as well.

-----------------

With this, I conclude the final entry of my intern diary. I am happy that I was
more or less able to stick to the routine and manage some entry for most of the
days. I, however, could not keep up a similar pace with the papers-per-week
initiative, which I'll revive once I get back to college in few days. I hope to
retain all the motivation and encouragement I have received from here in the
future and carry on with similar engaging activities to further enhance my
knowledge and skills.
