Calcein, Calcein everywhere!
============================

We ran a lot of experiments today. I will have to summarize it in a form of
story so that it sticks for longer and will be helpful in countering questions
like 'why the hell did we do that?'.

With dawn (in lab, of course), we have two samples in our hands. One vial
containing the lipid vesicle made of DPPC:DOPC:Chol mixture (hereafter referred
as DPPC mixture) and DOPC:Cholesterol (hereafter referred as DOPC mixture). We
sonicate both of the mixtures and unlike last time, don't dilute it.

The manually packed G50 column is washed two volumes with filtered PBS and both
solutions are passed through it to elute the vesicles from the dye. From our
previous experience, we anticipate the vesicles to be present in 3-4-5
fractions (0.5 ml each) and hence we directly collect those fractions. Also,
since DPPC mixture is more concentrated than the DOPC mixture, we prepare
serial dilution and decide to dilute the sample to twice volume to get a
reasonable blank and total lysis fluorescence values.

Now, the action begins with the incubation of proteins and checking for
activity.


I. ClyA WT (with DPPC, DOPC)

DPPC [ BL, ClyA WT, Tx ] DOPC [ BL, ClyA WT, Tx ]

Kinetic Cycle Run for around 15 minutes.

[Image here]

*Observation*: The wild type protein shows a sudden rise and plateau of
activity in DOPC mixture, while the activity rises gradually with a smooth
descent in the DPPC mixture.

II. ClyA 56C (with DPPC, DOPC)

DPPC [ BL, ClyA 56C, Tx ] DOPC [ BL, ClyA 56C, Tx ]

Kinetic cycle run for around 15 minutes.

[Image here]

*Observation*: The cystein mutant protein (56C) protein shows a similar
activity as that of Cly WT in DPPC mixture, but shows no significant activity
in DOPC mixture. I also ensured that this is not because of the less
concentration or reducing agent in the mixture by doubling the protein
concentration and pumping up the Beta-mercaptoethanol concentration in the two
mixtures respectively.

--------

These two experiments gave a clue that ClyA 56C mutant is probably not
as active as the wild type in DOPC:Cholesterol mixture, but will show
similar activity in the DPPC mixture. To strengthen our observations,
I further ran the experiment once more.

III. DOPC [ BL, ClyA WT, ClyA 56C, Tx ], DPPC [ WT, Tx ]

Kinetic cycle run for 2 hours.

This run will allow us to directly compare the activity of two proteins
in DOPC:Cholesterol system and let us strengthen our leads from the previous
two experiments.

[Image here]

*Observation*: 

The ClyA WT protein showed same activity (steep rise with plateau) as before
and ClyA 56C also remained flat with little/insignificant activity. The extra
two wells with ClyA WT in DPPC vesicles showed almost X% lysis, consistent
with experiment in (I) and act as a control that everything is alright with
the setup.

**Leads?**

ClyA 56C is not significantly active in the DOPC:Cholesterol mixture, while
both ClyA WT and ClyA 56C seem to be active in similar manner in
DPPC:DOPC:Cholesterol mixture.

**Further?**

Repeat the experiment and confirm the conclusions.
