Activity in DPPC:DOPC:Chol mixture
==================================

Fumbled by our results yesterday, we had planned to repeat the experiments
today and hopefully finalize the observations (since that would be the third
repeat of the experiment).

The work today was to repeat the activity assay of both proteins in DOPC
mixture and DPPC mixture. The DOPC vesicles mixture had got over so I eluted a
fresh 100 ul of vesicles into 1.5 ml of fraction from the stock.

I. DOPC [ Bl, ClyA WT, ClyA 56C, Triton ]

Kinetic cycle run for 2 hours.

[Image here]

*Observation*: Suddenly, ClyA WT also joins the club with ClyA 56C in terms of
activity by showing very minor lysis even after long incubation.

##### What went wrong?
The first thing that comes to mind is that perhaps lipid vesicles are somehow
compromised in this new fraction that I eluted. If it is because of incubation
with Calcein and Cholesterol in the extra-vesicular area, then it should affect
the vesicles in DPPC mixture as well.

For this, I freshly eluted the lipid vesicles from DPPC mixture stock, diluted
them once as before and ran the experiment.

II. DPPC [ Bl, ClyA WT, ClyA 56C, Triton ]

Kinetic cycle run for 2 hours

[Image here]

*Observation*: Surprisingly, nothing was wrong with the DPPC vesicles and both
proteins show similar activity as day before.

To establish it further whether there is any difference between the two
vesicles of DPPC (the older one and freshly eluted one), we ran a setup with
ClyA WT incubated with both type of lipid vesicles. We, however, obtained no
decrease in activity of protein in the newly eluted vesicles, thus rejecting
our initial hypothesis.


### Conclusion

We'll stick with the DPPC:DOPC:Cholesterol mixture in which both ClyA WT and
ClyA 56C both are active almost equally and can proceed further with our
fluorescence labeling studies.
